Hey,
guys,
congrats for getting this far.
I hope that you have been enjoying the journey.
And don't worry,
it is going to get even more exciting in this video.
We start looking at life after the form.
In other words,
when we actually click submit,
we expect something to happen because there is no form on the Internet that when we click
submits,
nothing happens.
Something always happens,
and today we're going to see what happens and learn how to control it.
Going back to our court file,
we will start making modifications to the form tug so that we will said two things.
Well said a method on on action there.
Two forms of mission methods.
One is get and one is posed in this video.
We will be looking at the 1st 1 as get I'm going to modify my foreign tired and I'm going
toe add on attributes and this one is called my third on.
The value for this attributes is going to be the word get.
No,
you're probably wondering what is posed,
what is get on.
Why is this relevant?
And I'm going to bring you on a little field trip toe kind of context Realize what get does
.
So let's goto a popular Web site like youtube dot com.
Now YouTube is a very powerful and very popular video streaming site on.
As a beginning developer,
somebody wasn't worked on any projects off any real magnitude.
Up to this point,
you're probably Can't you two been wondering Wow,
how do they do what they do?
So I'm going to break it down into simple terms.
Andi will see contextually what they get.
Those and whole YouTube uses what we're about to explore.
So up here you have the search on.
Maybe you've realized by no,
or maybe you knew before.
But this search is really just a form.
We are creating a form.
We have a text box and we have a submit button.
You,
too.
They have a text box and ever submit button they to see him Concept.
If I search for video on puppies,
I'm typing in that value.
And then I click the search button,
which is like picking or submit button here.
What happens is that it goes to another page,
this other pages,
what we call an action.
All right,
so we're going to look at the action and where also can't get.
So the next page that comes after submitting your form is called the Action Page.
And then,
if you look in the browser browser,
the text in the brochure.
Sorry,
then you'll see this question mark,
and then you see some value and you'll see some.
So you see a question mark and you see some values.
What this is is a result off our get action.
So they get sorry to get method.
So the action is the next page that comes after the form.
All right,
so in other words,
when we click submit,
we expect to navigate away from the form,
toe another patient,
See a you're successful or something like that,
right?
That's our action.
However,
the values that you're seeing here would be,
as a result,
off the values that were submitted by the forms.
In our case,
we wrote puppies to be submitted.
All right,
so puppies was submitted.
When we click search on,
then what you see is what you call a quarry result or a query.
Sorry that the word is slipping,
but these these are quarter results appearing in the U.
R.
L so when we use get it actually creates that question mark and then it passes every
variable that was in the form as well as all the values.
Alright,
so that's a practical way off.
Whole get is used on whole actions work.
So we're going to be modifying our form such that when we click submit,
we move away to another page on.
Also,
we will see what happens in our Earl wants the get method is being used.
So we modified and we use the method get The next thing is that we want the action.
So I'm going to say action as another attribute on.
I'm going to say the action is success that PHP So the action page?
Well,
one,
we need to create it because up to now we only have one ph b pay just really doing anything
I understand to collapse all of these folders.
So we see that we really only have one page,
which is index.
So we need to create another pitch called Success that PHP.
So what happens is that when you click submit is going to see what page should I go to next
?
And we would have defined that page right here.
Success that PHP.
So I'm just going to go ahead and create it.
I'm just going to go over to my explorer pain and click new file.
And then I'm going to say success that PHP on,
then just the same way I want on my pages.
Pretty consistent.
I'm going to take the require court from Index,
and I'm going to pay sitting success.
All right,
So I don't have to do much work to meet my pages look alike.
And I'm just going to do the same here.
And I'm going to copy these br tugs.
And as we go along,
we refined the design,
So just work with it for no on.
So in success lot ph.
B.
I'm referencing the header on the footer on.
I just need to change the title here because this is the success.
Paid someone to see success here.
All right,
No one more modification is I'm going to put on each one tag here on this is going to just
print.
You have been registered.
So when they fill out the form and then they click submit,
we want to let them known that they were successful.
So we're just going to say you have Bean Mr Bean registered.
All right,
Andi,
once again,
I'm just going to use my bootstrap to easily move my content.
Our own someone to see takes the center.
Andi,
I believe that bootstrap has something for green text.
So,
you know,
color coding kind of helps give visual cues as to what?
When something is an era versus when something is good someone to use text dash success
which I believe should give a green old put on we can We can always test that theory.
But essentially,
that is what our success speech should print.
So lets us see what happens when,
after doing these modifications,
go back to my registration page.
I'm going to refer,
So he gets the latest cord on.
Then I'm going toe fill this boat.
So Mary Poppins on her days off birth is probably and notice that this this is not a
limited at the date on the time or the money,
specifically from the year.
So we're going to modify that does.
This is going to be irritating to users.
If they're born in the fifties,
you can see the problem.
There And so I'm just going to go ahead and work with this date Onda leave for as a
database.
I mean,
I m pop at gmail dot com on her number is 12 something random.
All right.
And then when I click submit Look what happens.
You have bean registered.
Isn't that lovely?
So that is how we start seeing a whole forms work.
So when we submit the next page that it goes toe would have been defined by us in the
action.
Alright?
Success that PHP.
I noticed that the question mark is appearing because it's said to get so because we're
getting that question Mark is already there,
But nothing is coming after the question marks.
So no,
we need to make some more modifications,
toe or form to start getting content to appear in,
or you are oh on.
So we know that the get is actually functioning properly now going back to our core the
next modification that we need need,
need,
need need need to make on Really This is in the context off PH.
B and certain other service I languages.
We need toe actually give our input controls what we call the name attributes so right?
No,
they have idea and ideas mostly used by Jake,
Ori and CS sister,
you know,
name our control.
So using the i d.
Like we saw in the case off date off birth,
we could actually say that the script should tar get any element with the i d date off
birth.
So we see that I d can be useful for the visual side of things,
but for the server side of things,
we need to use a name attribute.
So when we use the name attribute,
it's like we're simulating variable.
So the same way we can just declare a variable here and give it a value,
and we can echo that variable and it's all nice and dandy.
The only way that PHP can actually access the value inside of for control is if we access
it by its name on.
The only way to set the name for our control is to give it the name attributes.
So I'm going to go ahead and give first name,
the name attribute and the name can be the same thing.
So you don't have toe worry about what you're going to name it.
You can have the ideas first name and the name is first name just for consistency.
See?
All right.
So you can actually just copy and piece.
The idea is going right across,
and it has changed from I D to need.
All right,
so whichever method is easier for you,
and I just do this for a few onscreen,
but our continent the lesson,
and you can do it on your own,
um,
four year old edification.
It's also a good idea to give your your submit button name.
Andi.
I'm just going to do that.
So I've given all of the other ones names,
and I'll just give the submit button and name also because sometimes you want to actually
call it by name by PHP to dynamically,
um,
accomplish things with it.
So every thing that is in my form,
that is a foreign element.
Once it's collecting data or it is interacting with data and the submit button would fall
into that second category,
I am giving it a name.
No,
I want to go back to my form on refresh on.
I'm going to fill out this form.
Some were using Mary Poppins information on.
Then I'm going to submit Onda.
We went our action,
but take a look at our you are Oh,
so you can see that for each element.
Whatever name we gave the element.
We're seeing those values there.
Alright,
so first name last name,
you'll be specialty email on phone,
and you also noticed that you're seeing the values that were put in.
So first name equals Mary.
Last name equals Poppins,
you'll be equals.
And this is kind of four months because of special characters.
Slashes aren't really alone in the euro,
so it's compensating for the slashes,
which is what it looks.
A cryptic but specialty database,
plus admin.
That's the space right there on email in pop once again special character gmail dot com,
etcetera,
etcetera and submit which,
well,
it had no value.
So that's fine.
So it will put the value.
Whatever the value off some it would have been,
it would be there.
But the point is,
for every name that you would have defined in your form,
the values can be seen by our server side aren't so they get action is actually putting the
get method.
Sorry is actually putting all of the values here.
And this is what you call a query string or quarter results,
right?
Anything after the question mark,
No contextually for this registration form.
This is harmless.
If you are doing a using,
if you're doing a registration form where they can use any amount of postural answer and
sensitive datum data,
you wouldn't want to use the quarry string here.
All right,
so that is when we look at the other method that does not pass all off your values on all
of your valuable information right here in the URL.
Publicly accessible.
All right.
No,
the next thing is,
what if I wanted to reprint the information that was just submitted in the form on the page
?
So the context is that Mary just signed up and we just want to show her that this is the
information that she entered while affirming that she's successfully registered.
So what I'm going to do is modify my action page on I'm going toe,
actually print coat everything that came back from the form.
So on our page,
we're going to start using PHP code.
So,
firstly,
I opened up my PHP tag.
All right,
on,
then inside off this tug,
we're going to start using a specialized function on,
uh,
this one is called get.
So this is what we call like a super variable in PHP.
So I'm going to say a dollar sign,
underscore,
get all right and then open square.
So it's really like a super ari super variable.
Meaning on because I'm using the square brackets can tell you scenery,
but then each subscript is really going to have the name off the controller that you define
.
So they literally the name that you defined is a subscript off this Get Ari.
All right,
so let me put that into context if I see get first name.
All right on.
Well,
this is just going to get the values,
actually want to print it.
Oh,
so I'm going to have to say echo,
get first name.
All right.
So when I go back to my page on that form Phil,
it'll on,
then click.
Submit.
Then I'm going to see Mary being echoed to the screen.
And it's printing Mary because it's getting the value that is associated with first name.
All right,
so then that is whole.
You start getting back the values that are being submitted in the form you click submit it
passes the test.
Somewhere on that somewhere is into this super variable pretty much on you can segment this
super variable by using the name off the control that you intend toe get the value for All
right.
So once again,
this is just one big variable or Ari and you just get the specific ones by using the
subscript name that is that corresponds with the control.
You're trying to get the value off.
So then that means I can actually use this and get all the other values understand to
duplicate that line and see get last name.
I want the deal be that is being submitted.
I want what else is there was a specialty.
They can go ahead and just feel these old off screen.
I'll do it all screen.
I need it on your own time.
All right,
So,
having done that,
if I go and refresh,
then I'm going to see them all being printed and off course.
We know how the Echo statement works.
It's not when toe try and space anything for us.
But that's pretty much know the wonderful thing about the get once against that,
I didn't have to go back and submit the form.
It is just whatever is in the URL is available in the get here at all times.
So just because I refreshed on the values are already there.
Then it just got about the values on.
Look at this.
If I change this toe my name and then I refresh the page.
No,
sorry.
If I change it to my name and then press enter,
not refreshed,
you will refresh the page.
We reload the page on because the variables are still there in the world.
He would just get whatever value is in the variable being referenced.
So once again,
this could be useful.
We see that a big web site like YouTube uses it,
but they're just using it to show you the search results.
They're not using it to pass over sensitive information at all.
No,
I have in another window example.
So this is boots nip on.
People come here and make you know little snippets that you can take inspiration from,
if not bar altogether on here.
I'm just They can't a simple,
uh,
profiler representation of somebody's information,
and I'm going to use this as inspiration toe style hole over pH.
Here we look for anybody who has just registered.
Now I'm going to go to bootstrap site and I'm I'm going to use the card component,
and I went to you draw inspiration from this to represent the the registrants.
Information on this success speech aren't so.
I'm just going to kind of draw inspiration from home.
Wants to look they didn't submit any profile picture,
and that's fine.
I'll leave that alone but at least lets us see whole best.
We can represent their data using inspiration from this control our components.
Just I'm wondering to look at all of the templates,
and I see here that this one is simple.
It's designed just for text,
and all we have is text.
So we're just going to copy this on.
Then we go back to our success speech,
so I'm just going to paste this up of all of the PHP,
spend some time doing over indentations,
and then what we're going to do is just modify all of this.
Remember that out of the box this court will work,
but we want this This representation toe actually have the Dita coming in from or form.
So this is what we have so far,
we have the car title and a subtitle,
and then we have some stuff.
Some text are.
So what I'm going to do is put the registrants full name here,
where it's his car title.
So I'll just do that change and we just do it side by side.
So what I want to do is Sprint first name and last name in this section for this age five
talk.
All right,
so remember that we have multiple ways we can do this.
The simplest way to me is toe put in a PHP block.
Alright,
Some superimposing that in between the h five tug I want to echo on.
I'm going to be echoing the value for first name on a space on the value for last name.
And then remember that really and truly this space is not going to exist.
So I'm just going toe,
put them in quotation marks,
use my interpolation.
All right.
And then what that is going to do is just create one long,
contiguous block off text.
Andi,
with my semi colon,
and I think there's something wrong here.
Okay,
so then this and we're getting a red line.
And if I look back at my page,
I see that the peach has broken for this error.
So the D about the debugging is quite clear,
and it's sending us where Which file has the arrow on dawn?
Which line?
And that's lying 11.
And that's our line here.
So if that won't work,
then I'm going to instead removes the quotation marks on.
I'm going to use some concatenation here,
someone to conquer tinny.
It's the tool variables,
some echoing first name.
And then I'm going to con Captain eight a blank space onto last name.
All right,
so then we get that one long printing.
So sometimes you may have an idea of whole to write code like I just did on.
Then it may not work coat,
and that's fine.
You can always you know,
all the techniques.
He can always refresh its and regroup and try it another way.
So when I refresh this,
then we see our values being printed as they are in here.
So I don't like being called puppets.
Understand?
To rename changes,
but to Mary Press enter and then we get Mary Poppins.
Alright,
so that's that's the first step.
Next,
I'm going to change the subtitle.
Toby her provided specialty.
So she says she's a database admin.
So I'm going to change the text here for the subtitle in the same way.
So no,
we're seeing that we can just copy this,
and I'm just going toe create a space.
So we get two lines here so we can see what each six starts and stops on what is inside h
six,
which is our beach b block on.
Then.
I'm just going to change this to Specialty.
Andi,
that's all I need printed.
So I'm just going to remove all of that on then when I refresh my page the Mary Poppins
database at all right.
And then I'm sure you get the idea.
You can go ahead and change out.
So we took inspiration from an existing controller on No,
we're making it our own.
Now we're making dynamic because the values here are relative to what is being submitted in
the form.
All right,
so as many changes as you make,
you can see them reflected here so I'm just going to go ahead and steam rule through the
rest of the changes here.
And then we just look at the final product art.
So I made all the changes,
all that it was.
Take the P class.
That's a car text,
and I just made each one itself.
And then what I'm going to do here is be explicit.
So date of birth,
colon for each one off them.
I'm just going to make sure that the static text is there.
So this is all we start merging static text with dynamic text because each time date of
birth is going to get printed email address is going to get printed.
But what is on the next side off the colon is always going to be relative toe what is
submitted.
All right,
So when I do all of this on day,
I'm going to take all these uncle tugs because I really don't need them,
right?
No,
I don't need them in the profile,
but off course,
you know,
make it your own.
You customize its whole you wanted.
And then when I refreshed my page,
I see here that I have ah slight error and it is seen that I have an undefined index called
Contact and determine the line number,
and that's because the indexes phone on,
not contact.
So you made me those mistakes,
and PHP will always be alert to them to keep you in line on when I refresh.
That's what I end up with.
So a nice little contact card to show Mary Poppins all of what she just submitted.